                                            CDP ON AWS 

Steps: 

1) Create a credential in CDP 

1.1) Create a cross-account IAM role 

2) Register an environment in CDP 

2.1) Create cloud formation stack 

2.2) Creating a SSH Key pair 

2.3) Providing Required Details for registering an environment 

3) Creating a data hub cluster  

1) Create a credential in CDP: 

In order to use role-based authentication, you must create an IAM role on AWS. 

Prior to creating a cross-account IAM role on AWS, log in to the CDP web interface and obtain the parameters that need to provide for the IAM role: 

In the Management Console, navigate to Environments > Shared Resources > Credentials > Create Credential: 

 

Note or copy the Cross-account Access Policy, Account ID, and External ID listed here: 

 

1.1) Creating a cross-account IAM role 

       A) Log in to the AWS Management Console. 

 B) Navigate to the IAM console > policies and click create policy 

 

C) navigate to the CDP console >management console>environments>shared resources >credentials and copy the json policy 

 

 

D) select the json tab and then paste the copied json file from CDP console 

 

 

 

 

E) enter a name for your policy and click on create policy  
 

 

F) navigate to IAM and select create role 

G) Select ‘another AWS account’ from the list of trusted entities  

H) Enter the account id and external id that CDP provided us and click on next 

 

 

I) In the next step, attach the already created policy to the role 

 

J) in the next step, Create tags and give a name to the role and select create role 
 

 

 

 

K) From the summary section, copy the role ARN  

 

 

L) paste the copied role ARN in cross-account role ARN field of the credential page
 

 

 

 

 

 

2) Register a CDP Environment:  

2.1) Create cloud formation stack: 

i) Download the Cloud formation provided template here 

ii) In the AWS console, deploy the Cloud formation template: 

In AWS Services, search for Cloud formation. 

Click Create Stack. 

Select Template is ready and then select Upload a template file option.
 

iii) Click Choose file and select the Cloud formation template that you downloaded. 

iv) Click Next. 

v) Enter a stack name. The name can be any valid name. 

vi) Under Parameters, complete the following fields: 

S3BucketName: Choose an unused bucket name. CDP will create the bucket for you. (please make sure that you do not use any capital letters in s3 bucket name) 

AWS Account: Your 12-digit AWS account ID number, which you can find in my account section when you click on your profile in your AWS account. 

Prefix: A short prefix of your choosing, which will be added to the names of the IAM resources we'll be creating. 

 

 

Make a note of the S3BucketName and prefix that you define. You will need them later. 

vii) Click Next. 

 viii) At the Configure Stack Options page, give tag name and value(optional) & click Next. 

 

 

ix) At the bottom of the Review page, under Capabilities, click the checkbox next to I acknowledge that AWS Cloudformation might create IAM resources with custom names, as that is exactly what we will be doing. 

x) Click Create Stack. 
 

 

 

2.2) Creating a SSH Key pair: 

In the AWS console, create an SSH key in the region of your choice. If there is already an SSH key in your preferred region that you'd like to use, you can skip these steps. 

In AWS Services, search for EC2. 

In the top right corner, verify that you are in your preferred region. 

On the left hand navigation bar, choose Key Pairs. 

On the top right of the screen, select Create Key Pair. 

Provide a name and choose the pem format. The name can be any valid name. 

2.3) Providing Required Details for registering an environment: 

Return to the CDP Management Console and navigate to Environments > Register Environments. 

 

Provide an environment name and description. The name can be any valid name. Choose Amazon as the cloud provider. 

Under Amazon Web Services Credential, chose the credential that you created earlier and click Next. 

 

Under Data Lake Settings, give your new data lake a name. The name can be any valid name. Choose the latest data lake version. 

For Data Lake Scale, choose Light Duty and click Next. 

 

Choose your desired region. This should be the same region you created an SSH key in previously. 

Under Select Network, choose Create New Network. (Enter the Network CIDR, The vpc created in AWS gets deployed with this CIDR) 

Under Security Access Settings, choose Create New Security Groups. In the access CIDR use your companies CIDR 

 

Under SSH Settings, choose the SSH key you created earlier. 

 

Under Logs - Storage and Audit: 

Choose the Instance Profile titled prefix-log-access-instance-profile, where "prefix" is the prefix you defined in the Parameters section of the stack details in AWS. 

For Logs Location Base, choose S3BucketName/logs, where S3BucketName is the bucket name you defined in the Parameters section of the stack details in AWS. 

For Ranger Audit Role, choose prefix-ranger-audit-role, where "prefix" is the prefix you defined in the Parameters section of the stack details in AWS. 

 

Under Data Access, choose prefix-data-access-instance-profile. For Storage Location Base, enter the S3Bucketname that you defined. For Data Access Role, choose prefix-datalake-admin-role.  

 

Add tags (optional) & In the enable S3 guard section, Enter the dynamo DB table used by s3               guard. This table will be created if it does not already exists. Click on register environment. 

 

 

 

 

Note: Make sure that you have not used more than 2 elastic ip’s in your AWS account. (By default AWS allows each AWS account to have upto 5 elastic ip’s.) 

From the below images you can notice that an environment with datalake successfully created and running. 

 

 

 

 

 

3) Creating a Datahub Cluster: 

Navigate to the Management Console > Environments > click on an environment where you would like to create a cluster > click Create Data Hub Cluster. 

 

Provide the following: 

A) Select Cluster Definition.
 

 

B) In the Services section, select a specific cluster definition: either CDP 1.0 - Data Engineering template or CDP 1.0 - Data Mart template. 

C) Under General Settings > Cluster Name, provide name of your choice for your cluster & tags for your cluster. 

 

 

D) Click on advanced options & choose image catalog. 

The options on the "Image Settings" page of the advanced create cluster wizard allow you to select custom image settings. 

By default, Data Hub uses the prewarmed image from the image catalog provided in Data Hub. 

Data Hub uses the image catalog provided by default. Using custom image catalogs is currently not supported. 

            

E) Click on network and availability.  

The "Network and availability" options allow you to customize the networking settings of your cluster. 

If your environment includes a single subnet, that subnet is pre selected and it cannot be changed. If your environment includes more than one subnet, you can select the subnet in which your cluster will be provisioned. 

 

 

 

 

F) The "Hardware and storage" options allow you to customize the cloud provider specific cluster hardware and storage options. 

The Hardware and Storage options can be selected for each host group. To edit this section for a specific host group, click on the . When done editing, click on the  to save the changes. Repeat for these steps for all host groups that you would like to edit. 

For more information on this section refer below link. 

https://docs.cloudera.com/data-hub/cloud/create-cluster-AWS/topics/dh-hardware-storage.html 

 

G) The options on the "Cloud Storage" page allow you to optionally specify the base storage location used for YARN and Zeppelin. 

During environment creation under Data Access > Storage Location Base you configure a default S3 base storage location for the environment, and all Data Hub clusters created within that environment use this location. The Cloud Storage options in the Data Hub cluster wizard allow you to additionally specify a different location for YARN application logs and Zeppelin Notebook's root directory: 

Existing Base Storage Location - By default, this is set to the Storage Location Base configured on environment level. If you do not want to make any changes, simply leave this blank. If you would like to use a different location for YARN application logs and Zeppelin Notebook's root directory, you can specify a different S3 location. Note that the specified S3 location must exist prior to Data Hub cluster creation and that you must adjust the IAM policies created during environment's cloud storage setup to make sure that IDBroker has write access to this location. 

Path for YARN Application Logs property - This directory structure gets created automatically during cluster creation. You can customize it if you would like it be different than what is suggested by default. 

Path for Zeppelin Notebooks Root Directory property - This directory structure gets created automatically during cluster creation. You can customize it if you would like it to be different than what is suggested by default. 

 

H) The "Recipes" option allows you to select previously uploaded recipes (scripts that can be run pre or post cluster deployment) for each host group. 

 

I) you can save your cluster as new cluster definition by clicking on save as new cluster definition & Next click on Provision cluster. 

  
